## How to use Ping Sweeps to Scan Networks and Find Live Hosts

In networking and reconnaissance, a ping sweep is a network scanning method that can establish a range of IP addresses that map to live hosts. The most used tool to run a ping sweeps is **fping**, which traditionally was accompanied by **gping** to generate the list of hosts for large subnets, although the more recent version of fping includes that functionality.

Ping Sweep is also known as ICMP sweep. You can use fping command for ping sweep. This command is a ping-like program which uses the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) echo request to determine if a host is up. **fping** is different from ping in that you can specify any number of hosts on the command line, or specify a file containing the lists of hosts to **ping**. If a host does not respond within a certain time limit and/or retry limit, it will be considered unreachable.

###### HOW TO INSTALL FPING

**Ubuntu / Debian and other derived distribution**

```bash
sudo apt install fping
```

**Redhat / Centos and other derived distribution**

In **.rpm** distributions we can install **fping** from the source file using the below commands.

```bash
cd /tmp/
wget http://fping.org/dist/fping-4.2.tar.gz
tar -xvzf fping-4.2.tar.gz
cd fping-4.2/
./configure
make && make install
```

Or if you want **fping** to support IPv6 addresses follow next steps

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr/local --enable-ipv4 --enable-ipv6
make && make install
```

* * *

###### HOW TO USE FPING

**Check the current fping version**

```bash
fping -v
```

**Output**

```bash
fping: Version 4.0
fping: comments to david@schweikert.ch
```

**Ping Multiple hosts from command line**

```bash
fping 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.102 localhost 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
```

**Output**

```bash
192.168.1.1 is alive
192.168.1.102 is alive
localhost is alive
8.8.8.8 is alive
8.8.4.4 is alive
```

**Ping Multiple hosts using file**

```bash
fping < file.txt
192.168.1.1 is alive
192.168.1.102 is alive
192.168.1.150 is unreachable
localhost is alive
192.168.147.2 is alive
8.8.8.8 is alive
8.8.4.4 is alive
```

**Ping IPs range from command line**

```bash
fping -s -g 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.255
```

**Output**

```bash
192.168.1.1 is alive
192.168.1.102 is alive
ICMP Host Unreachable from 192.168.1.102 for ICMP Echo sent to 192.168.1.2
ICMP Host Unreachable from 192.168.1.102 for ICMP Echo sent to 192.168.1.3
ICMP Host Unreachable from 192.168.1.102 for ICMP Echo sent to 192.168.1.4
ICMP Host Unreachable from 192.168.1.102 for ICMP Echo sent to 192.168.1.5
[...]
192.168.1.1 is unreachable
192.168.1.2 is unreachable
192.168.1.3 is unreachable
192.168.1.4 is unreachable
192.168.1.5 is unreachable
[...]

     255 targets
       2 alive
     253 unreachable
       0 unknown addresses

     253 timeouts (waiting for a response)
    1014 ICMP Echos sent
       2 ICMP Echo Replies received
    1008 other ICMP received

 0.05 ms (min round trip time)
 1.71 ms (avg round trip time)
 3.37 ms (max round trip time)
       12.003 sec (elapsed real time)
```

**Ping a complete Network**

Using the below command you can ping a complete network once using the option (**-r 1**) within the parameters. As you can easily understand you can increase this value according to your specific needs.

```bash
fping -g -r 1 192.168.0.0/24
```

* * *

###### HOW TO BLOCK PING SWEEPS ?

Port scans and ping sweeps cannot be blocked without taking the risk to compromise the network capabilities. However, it's possible to block such requests without any difficulties at host levels. Ping sweeps can be stopped if **ICMP echo** and **echo-reply** are turned off.

**Blocking Ping Sweeps on Linux System**

If you are using any **Linux** environment along with **iptables** you can easily block ping sweeps on every machine connected on the network adding into your **iptables** configuration the following rule:

```bash
iptables -A OUTPUT -p icmp --icmp-type echo-request -j DROP
```

**Blocking Ping Sweeps on Windows System**

On **Windows** machine it's also very easy to block ping sweeps but it's a little bit longer.

- Log into Windows using an administrator-level account.
- Press and hold the Windows key (located between the Ctrl and Alt keys) and the "R" key.
- Type "wf.msc" in the box (no quotation marks), and press "Enter."
- Right-click the "inbound rules" link in the left pane, and then click "New rule" from the context menu.
- Select the "Custom" radio button, and click "Next."
- Select "All Programs" and click "Next."
- Choose ICMPv4 as your protocol type, and click "Next."
- Click the "Customize" button.
- Choose "echo request" as the "Specific ICMP type."

**Important**: If you have enabled port forwarding, make sure that TCP port 445 is closed. Otherwise, the pings will still get through.
